Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, this lecture, we're going to talk about, if you're interested in programming,
how do you choose between all of the options available to you?
Operating system programming, you have data
science, you have back-end programming,
front-end programming, or the all alluring full stack developer.
The way I like to think about this is to break it down into two different questions.
First questions is, what are you orientated towards?
Are you orientated towards design or logic and puzzles?
The reason why I say that is because a front-end developer is someone who
is going to work with design more often, they're going to use less logic,
and they're going to work in a more fast-paced environment.
I often think of front-end developers as more of like creatives than programmers,
because you have a lot of editorial and creative control over
how something is going to look, and interact, and how customers use it.
Now, on the flipside, if you're the type of person who really likes puzzles,
solving problems, and generally likes doing hard things, and likes logic,
then software development and back-end development is probably the way to go.
I think you should probably just ask yourself, would you be interested in learning design?
Design as in colors, and shapes, and buttons, and images, and things like that.
If you say "No way," I'd say back-end development,
data science, operating system development, that's you.
If you're someone who actually is interested
in learning design, then front-end is the way to go.
The reason why I say that is because with both of these types of programming languages,
back-end and front-end, you have to over time get better at what you do,
and so the logical extension of a front-end developer is going to be design, usually,
and the logical extension of a software developer might be to move into
front-end development, get a little bit better there, or just double down
and work on harder things that are in the back-end.
So ask yourself that.
Do you like pretty things or hard things?
Pretty things are more creative and more aesthetically pleasing,
usually the front-end developers do that,
and usually the back-ends will do the stuff that's just hard.
The second question I'd like to ask is where do you see yourself using this programming?
Do you want to work for a startup?
Do you want to work for a big company,
or do you want to do your own projects?
If you're someone who wants to work for a startup,
well, you have a lot of options available to you.
Startups right now are craving back-end development,
front-end, they need it, but it's not as in demand,
they also have an increasing need for data science.
The thing you rarely see them hiring though are operating system developers,
that's not to say that startups don't ever make anything for operating systems,
they do, but when they do it, they usually find a way to package web code,
like Python or Ruby, and run that on the desktop.
If you wanted to work for a big company, great job security,
you want to kind of work your way up, lots of opportunities for promotion,
well, then I would say your options are a little bit different.
Big companies always need back-end developers.
The thing you don't see big companies often asking for is front-end development.
This is just because big companies, again, are more invested in old technologies,
they haven't yet caught up to that trend where design is such a big part of what they do.
If you want to program for operating systems,
big companies are probably your way to go in general,
you're probably going to go work for Adobe, or Microsoft, or something like an IBM.
The last thing is whether or not you want to build your own projects.
If you want to build your own projects, well, then I would say
focus on the things that can get it done the fastest.
Python and Ruby are great options.
I wouldn't say learn front-end development,
because that's only half of the equation,
you can get more done as a back-end,
and then it's cheaper to hire someone to do the front-end.
Now, if you're trying to do your own thing, it's rarely the case
that you should learn data science, because where are you getting the data?
You don't have tons and tons of customers, there's just not as many opportunities.
And, of course, not to forget mobile development.
Mobile is kind of a curveball, and what I generally would say is
if you're someone who likes mobile, then learn mobile,
because pretty much every use case needs it.
Startups need it, big companies definitely need it,
and if you're going to make a mobile app, you should probably learn
how to do iOS or Android programming.
All right, so ask yourself that.
Do I want to work for a startup, big company, do my own thing?
And, in general, am I more orientated towards
design, aesthetics, or logic and architecture?
All right guys, see you in the next lecture!